---
author: Lafcadio Hearn
cover: 267.jpg
isbn: 0804803072
lang: nl
layout: review
title: Japanese Miscellany, Strane stories, folklore gleanings, studies here and there
url: http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/redirect?tag=ldvd-20%26link_code=xm2%26camp=2025%26creative=165953%26path=http://www.amazon.com/gp/redirect.html%253fASIN=0804803072%2526tag=ldvd-20%2526lcode=xm2%2526cID=2025%2526ccmID=165953%2526location=/o/ASIN/0804803072%25253FSubscriptionId=0VJDVJ14KM0P0VXDCQ82
year: 0
---

Like all of Lafcadio Hearn's writings, "A Japanese Miscellany" is full of wandering musings, thoughts and observations of Japan freshly under the Meiji Restoration, when hints of old Japan could still be seen in the life of the people. All of the stories are fairly short, and reflect Hearn's love of folk magic, ghosts and moonlight themes.
The book is broken into three section. Strange Stories are all short fiction ghost tales. Folklore Gleanings is made up of scientific observations and reports, and Studies Here and There collects some interesting non-fiction tales of death and Buddhist rites.
Strange Stories - "Of a Promise Kept" is a honest, honorable Samurai ghost story. "Of a Promise Broken" is the opposite, an eerie tale of Samurai dishonor. "Before the Supreme Court," "The Story of Kogi the Priest" and "The Story of Kwashin Koji" are Buddhist folk tales full or morality and magic. "The Story of Umetsu Chubei" is a Samurai tale of heritage and strength.
Folklore Gleanings - "Dragon Flies" is an in-depth article on Dragon Flies, including drawings, myths and a collection of translated haikus. It is one of the longer pieces in the book. "Buddhist Names of Plants and Animals" is just that, showing the Buddhist origins of the names of several species. "Songs of Japanese Children" is also self-explanatory and is the longest article.
Studies Here and There - "On a Bridge" is a short bit of non-fiction about Samurai and peasants. "The Case of O-Dai" is a sad tale of early Christian missionaries, and their lack of respect for the native culture leading to one woman's destruction. "Beside the Sea" tells of a Buddhist ocean ritual for drowned sailors. "Drifting" is the story of a typhoon, and a brush with death. "Otokichi's Daruma" talks about the Daruma, a tiny Buddhist god of luck.
