---
author: Elizabeth Castro
cover: 367.jpg
isbn: '9780201353587'
lang: nl
layout: review
title: Perl and CGI for the World Wide Web
url: http://www.amazon.com/Perl-World-Visual-QuickStart-Guide/dp/020135358X?SubscriptionId=0VMG0VFGBMRWVRA58R02&tag=ldvd-20&linkCode=xm2&camp=2025&creative=165953&creativeASIN=020135358X
year: 0
---
One of the best things about "Perl and CGI for the World  Wide Web" is the seamless way the author incorporates terminology  into her explanations. Elizabeth Castro, author of "HTML 4 for the World Wide  Web", understands the intermediate user: someone who would be  bored by a beginner's guide, but isn't ready to step up to  heavy-hitting programming texts either.
 In "Perl and CGI", she  explains basic concepts--such as the difference between a compiled and  an interpreted script--within the text, so there's no need to keep  flipping back to the glossary. Readers should be familiar with HTML  and comfortable with technical explanations, diagrams, and general  vocabulary.
 Anyone trying to get a grasp on something as complex  and powerful as Perl will appreciate Castro's relatively  straightforward technique. For example, in the first chapter, Castro  explains some basic Perl concepts sensibly: that the "$" stands  for the "s" in "scalar"; the "@" sign stands for the  "a" in "array"; and that the "%" that labels a hash or  associative array indicates two circles on each side of the slash as  parts of a pair. This granular, logical way of building Perl knowledge  will get new Perl users started. More experienced users will want to  use this book as a workbook and refresher. "--Jennifer  Buckendorff"
