---
author: Ted Landphair Carol Highsmith
cover: 42.jpg
isbn: 0517183293
lang: nl
layout: review
title: "Boston : A Photographic Tour"
url: http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/redirect?tag=ldvd-20%26link_code=xm2%26camp=2025%26creative=165953%26path=http://www.amazon.com/gp/redirect.html%253fASIN=0517183293%2526tag=ldvd-20%2526lcode=xm2%2526cID=2025%2526ccmID=165953%2526location=/o/ASIN/0517183293%25253FSubscriptionId=0VJDVJ14KM0P0VXDCQ82
year: 0
---

Boston, that historical center of colonial charm, splendid parklands, superior universities, and technological development, is an endlessly fascinating place. It is the cauldron, not just of American freedom, but also, arguably, of modern democracy itself. The great names of Boston—Revere, Hancock, Adams, Kennedy, Lodge, O'Neill—are American legends. The stops along the Freedom and the Black Freedom trails are cornerstones of Early American life. Luckily for visitors, this old port city is compact, easily walkable, and eminently photogenic.
Gleaming skyscrapers have asserted their place in the skyline, but Boston seems little changed from the days when Henry David Thoreau dropped in on the Old Corner Bookstore. In this stunning new collection of over one hundred city portraits, renowned photographer Carol M. Highsmith captures the principal historic landmarks from the Old North Church to John F. Kennedy's birthplace in Brookline; neighborhoods from tony Beacon Hill to the eclectic South End; thriving downtown shops and restaurants; the major universities and celebrated museums; and the "Emerald Necklace" of parklands. A lively, information-packed introduction and captions by award-winning writer Ted Landphair offer the perfect complement to Highsmith's outstanding images.
"Boston: A Photographic Tour" celebrates the enduring elegance of New England's hub city. It is the perfect souvenir of a memorable visit, and the ideal gift for anyone who savors history, unforgettable architecture, cultural vitality, and high-tech innovation—the diversity that is truly Boston.
